A simple keylogger, developed for XMonad screencasting.


Building
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  $ ./bootstrap.sh
  $ ./configure
  $ make



Running keylog
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To run:
  $ sudo keylog [-k eventX] [-m eventY] [-s keymap.txt] [-t]

The keylog binary must be run with sudo in order to open the device
files. root privileges are permanently dropped after both files are
opened.

All keystrokes will be logged on stdout, one line per keystroke. Three
or more successive identical keystrokes will begin logging as as
"*NN", with NN incrementing with each repeated keystroke. Holding down
a key will begin logging as "+NN" when the autorepeat starts.

To suspend logging, hit both shift keys simultaneously. Repeat to
resume logging. SUSPEND and RESUME tokens will be logged.

Several independent instances can be run at the same time.



Running xkeylog
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To run:
  $ xkeylog [-d display] [-s keymap.txt] [-t]

No root privileges are required, but your X server must have XRECORD
extension.

All keystrokes will be logged on stdout, one line per keystroke. Three
or more successive identical keystrokes will begin logging as as
"*NN", with NN incrementing with each repeated keystroke.

To suspend logging, hit both shift keys simultaneously. Repeat to
resume logging. SUSPEND and RESUME tokens will be logged.

Several independent instances can be run at the same time.



Device files
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The -k and -m arguments are names of device files under /dev/input for
the keyboard and mouse, respectively. Each must be in the form
"eventN" where N is one or more decimal numbers.

To find keyboard and mouse device:
  $ grep "mouse\|sysrq" /proc/bus/input/devices



Keymaps
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The -s argument is a file full of 4 column tab-delimited records.
Each record specifies how to display a particular keycode.

   keycode\tsymbol1\tsymbol2\tismodifier

   - keycode is the code from showkey or xmodmap
   - symbol1 is the unshifted symbol to display
   - symbol2 is the shifted symbol to display
   - ismodifier is Y or N (for shift, ctrl, alt, etc)

Any keycodes not defined in keymap.txt will be displayed as <UNDEF>.

Make targets are provided to create an initial mapping file.

  $ cd src
  $ rm keymap.txt xkeymap.txt
  $ make keymap.txt
  $ make xkeymap.txt

For the console version:
Use showkey and setkeycodes to identify and enable any problem keys,
then edit the generated keymap.txt file and restart the logger to
fine-tune the output.

  # showkey
  # setkeycodes XXXX NNN
  $ vi keymap.txt

Any dead keys will likely produce a syslog message detailing the XXXX
values for setkeycodes.

For the X version:
Incorrect mappings can probably be resolved using some combination of
xmodmap, xkbmap, or similar...

There are two magic symbols in the map files:
  - shift keys  must be "S-"
  - caps lock   must be "<caps_lock>"



Timestamps
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The -t argument outputs a timestamp indicator on each keystroke. The
format is seconds and microseconds after the epoch, separated from the
key information by a single tab.
